---
layout: news-item
title: United to launch four new Pacific routes
section: News
folderish: false
parent: root
category: star-news
image: "united-launch-routes.jpg"
description: "Later in the week, the airline will also launch two new routes from its Guam hub – Seoul, South Korea, on Oct. 27 and Shanghai on Oct. 28."
---

## United Airlines will launch four new Pacific routes next week, beginning with nonstop service between Los Angeles and Melbourne, Australia, and between San Francisco and Tokyo's Haneda Airport, on Oct. 26. Later in the week, the airline will also launch two new routes from its Guam hub – Seoul, South Korea, on Oct. 27 and Shanghai on Oct. 28.

The airline will fly the Los Angeles – Melbourne route six times weekly with the new Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft. United is the North American launch customer for the 787-9, and this will be the carrier's first international deployment of the aircraft type.

United started service to Australia in 1979 and today operates more flights to more destinations in Australia than any other U.S. carrier, with daily flights from its San Francisco and Los Angeles hubs to Sydney and Melbourne and twice-weekly service to Cairns from Guam.

New daily flights between San Francisco and Tokyo's Haneda Airport complement United's existing service between the hub and Tokyo's Narita International Airport.

United also operates daily service to Tokyo/Narita from its hubs in Chicago, Denver, Guam, Houston, Los Angeles, New York and Washington, as well as from Honolulu.

In addition, United will launch two new routes from its Guam hub at A.P. Won Pat International Airport. Daily service to Seoul's Incheon International Airport beginning on Oct. 27, and twice-weekly service to Shanghai's Pudong International Airport, the first nonstop service from Guam to mainland China, beginning on Oct. 28.

United has served Guam for more than 40 years, with United and United Express currently providing nonstop service from the hub to more than 17 destinations in the Asia/Pacific region.

