---
layout: news-item
title: "Star Alliance Officially Opens New Lounge At São Paulo - Guarulhos Airport Terminal 3"
section: News
folderish: false
parent: root
category: press-release
image: "corporate.png"
description: "Star Alliance officially opened its new Lounge at São Paulo –Guarulhos Airport, Terminal 3 today. About 1,350 square metres in size, the lounge can accommodate up to 295 guests and is open daily from 12.00 noon to 03.00 in the morning. Access is granted to passengers travelling on Star Alliance member airlines from Guarulhos in First or Business Class or holding Star Alliance Gold Status. The lounge is located on the mezzanine level, overlooking the atrium and the airport apron beyond, and can easily be reached by escalators or elevators. "
---


**São Paulo, Brazil – July 25th, 2014** - Star Alliance officially opened its new Lounge at São Paulo –Guarulhos Airport, Terminal 3 today. About 1,350 square metres in size, the lounge can accommodate up to 295 guests and is open daily from 12.00 noon to 03.00 in the morning. Access is granted to passengers travelling on Star Alliance member airlines from Guarulhos in First or Business Class or holding Star Alliance Gold Status. The lounge is located on the mezzanine level, overlooking the atrium and the airport apron beyond, and can easily be reached by escalators or elevators.

In line with the new Star Alliance lounge concept (already implemented in Buenos Aires, Los Angeles and Paris), local touches and flavours have been combined with global branding elements. This has allowed for the creation of a very Brazilian look and feel, reflecting the strong artesian heritage of the country, by the São Paulo based architects Indio da Costa A.U.D.T. Studio. The use of wood, rope, natural fibres and typical ceramic finishing bring cosiness to a sophisticated interior and provides a relaxing and welcoming atmosphere to customers. Some of the country’s most talented designers used mainly native Brazilian materials to create specially handcrafted furniture. This gives the lounge a unique ambiance, with the various seating areas divided into a variety of different sections, each with their own appeal.
The lounge was developed and is operated by In Flight Solutions Brasil on behalf of Star Alliance.

For those wishing to work, free wi-fi access is provided throughout the lounge, with convenient power and USB outlets available. A dedicated business centre and free wi-fi printing is also provided.

Complimentary hot and cold refreshments can be taken from a well-equipped café area. The bar area and two further coffee stations provide additional drinks.

A selection of local and international newspapers and magazines is available as well as televisions showing international news and sports channels.

For those wishing to freshen up, four fully equipped shower suites are available in addition to the standard restroom facilities. Flight information displays ensure that customers are kept informed on the status of their flights.

12 Star Alliance member carriers offer on average 44 daily flights to and from Guarulhos Airport, connecting to 22 destinations in 16 countries. This makes Guarulhos the Alliance’s most international operation in Latin America.

Air Canada, Air China, Lufthansa, SWISS, South African Airways*, Singapore Airlines, Turkish Airlines, TAP and United all operate from Terminal 3, Avianca will remain in Terminal 1 and Copa Airlines and Ethiopian Airlines will continue to operate from Terminal 2, where third party lounges will be available for eligible customers.
Globally, Star Alliance First Class and Business Class passengers as well as Star Alliance Gold Card holders have access to more than 1,000 lounges.
Photos of the lounge can be downloaded from: http://xturnover.dk/staralliance/gru/lounge/

*SAA will move into T3 as of August 2nd, 2014

__About Star Alliance:__
The Star Alliance network was established in 1997 as the first truly global airline alliance to offer worldwide reach, recognition and seamless service to the international traveller. Its acceptance by the market has been recognized by numerous awards, including the Air Transport World Market Leadership Award and Best Airline Alliance by both Business Traveller Magazine and Skytrax. The member airlines are: Adria Airways, Aegean Airlines, Air Canada, Air China, Air India, Air New Zealand, ANA, Asiana Airlines, Austrian, Avianca, Brussels Airlines, Copa Airlines, Croatia Airlines, EGYPTAIR, Ethiopian Airlines, EVA Air, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Scandinavian Airlines, Shenzhen Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, SWISS, TAP Portugal, Turkish Airlines, THAI and United. The integration of Avianca Brasil is currently in progress. Overall, the Star Alliance network currently offers more than 18,500 daily flights to 1316 destinations in 192 countries.