---
layout: news-item
title: KLM to give Edmonton only route to mainland Europe CrewTerminal 2
section: News
folderish: false
parent: root
category: hot-topics
image: "klm-tulips.jpg"
description: "Dutch carrier KLM will add Edmonton to its North American route map, announcing plans for nonstop service to Amsterdam."
---

Dutch carrier KLM will add Edmonton to its North American route map, announcing plans for nonstop service to Amsterdam.

KLM will begin flying three weekly flights between Edmonton and Amsterdam on May 5. The airline will boost its schedule to four flights a week on June 22. KLM will fly the route with 243-seat Airbus A330-200 jets that seat 30 in business class, 35 in Economy Comfort and 178 in regular coach.

TODAY IN THE SKY: The MD-11 makes its final scheduled passenger run on KLM flight from Montreal
TODAY IN THE SKY: KLM: The 'world's oldest airline' turns 95

Edmonton has routes to Iceland on Icelandair and a now-seasonal route to London on Air Canada, but the Amsterdam route will become the airport's only nonstop flight to mainland Europe.

"We think breaking in as the first in the market is always an advantage and we wanted to be the leaders in that untapped market," Jean-Noel Rault, Air France-KLM's general manager for Canada, says to the Edmonton Journal.

KLM merged with Air France in 2004, with each carrier continuing to fly under its own brand as part of Air France-KLM.

ALSO : KLM to add 150 seats per week on Amsterdam-Calgary flights (Calgary Herald)

Edmonton's economy has been strong in recent years, buoyed in large part by its role as one of Canada's top oil and gas centers. Rault noted Edmonton's economy was a draw for KLM, which will now fly to two cities in Canada's energy-rich province of Alberta. KLM also flies from Amsterdam to Calgary.

Edmonton is Canada's sixth most-populous metro area and the second most-populous in Alberta, slightly behind Calgary.

Helping to bolster its routes to Alberta, Air France-KLM has a codeshare agreement with Canadian low-cost carrier WestJet. WestJet is headquartered in Calgary and operates a hub there. It also has a sizable presence in Edmonton.